are you doing there or Threepio taking
one last look sir as my friends Star
Wars Episode nine the rise of Skywalker
is meant to be an end of the Skywalker
saga the combination of 11 films 186 TV
episodes and countless comics novels and
video games if you don't have time to
binge all of that or if you just want to
take a trip down memory lane
and I am here for you I've basically
been explaining Star Wars to people
since I was six so here we go big
spoilers for the entire Star Wars saga
are ahead the story takes place a long
time ago in a galaxy far far away
humans and aliens from thousands of
planets use space ships that travel
through hyperspace most of these worlds
are part of a galactic Republic that has
its headquarters here on Khorasan the
entire planet is one big city the
Republic doesn't have a standing army or
Navy but it is policed by an order of
space wizards called the Jedi Knights
the Jedi derive their power from the
force what's the force you ask it's an
energy field created by all living Z the
force gives them all sorts of powers
like mind control mind-reading
telekinesis precognition and lots of
stuff that we've never even seen yet the
Jedi use laser swords called light
sabers it can cut through almost
anything and deflect blaster bolts but
things aren't going so well into
Republic because greedy special interest
types like the Trade Federation actually
control the government they're run by
the gnome audience who talk like this we
wouldn't never do anything without the
approval of the Senate now it turns out
they're under the control of a Sith Lord
called Darth Sidious now what's a Sith
they're like evil Jedi except they use a
dog side of the force
Sidious orders the Federation to kill
two Jedi negotiators and invade planet
Naboo with a droid army the Jedi qui-gon
jinn and his Padawan apprentice obi-wan
Kenobi escape and meet a frogman named
Jar Jar Binks who talks like a
Rastafarian Roger Rabbit they rescued
Queen Amidala with the help of a
resourceful droid named r2d2 they
stopped on a desert world called
Tatooine for repairs where they made a
racecar driving slave named Anakin
Skywalker qui-gon figures out that
Anakin is strong with the force like
stronger than anyone ever
so they win his freedom and have to
leave his mom behind and they don't come
back for his mom later because anyways
Anakin makes friendly with Amidala
handmaiden Padme
for you too they run into darth sidious
as apprentice Darth Maul and the Jedi
are all like oh my god what the actual
because that thing the Sith have been
dead for a thousand years they arrive on
Coruscant and are greeted by Senator
Palpatine who's also from Naboo
our people are dying senator qui-gon
takes Anakin to meet the Jedi Council
who are led by Jedi Master Yoda here is
the path to the dark side and mace windu
wide ain't no planet I ever heard of
they speak bocce on what everyone agrees
that Anakin is so powerful that he might
actually be the chosen one who's going
to bring balance to the force
meanwhile Amidala calls for a new
election and wouldn't you know it
Palpatine becomes the new president of
space they will be Chancellor
so they go back to Naboo where Amidala
reveals surprise that she was actually
her handmaiden Padme all along what and
there's a big battle which Anakin
basically wins accidentally Darth Maul
kills qui-gon but then obi-wan cuts him
in Twain
so now Obi Wan's gonna train Anakin and
the Frog people throw a Mardi Gras
fast-forward 10 years and there's
trouble brewing a Jedi named Count Dooku
has left the order informed a separatist
government the Confederacy of
Independent Systems who have their own
droid army
Padme is now a senator in by the way so
is Jar Jar I so at some point the past
10 years this guy ran a successful
campaign to represent the entire planet
in space government well he is a veteran
Padme survives two assassination
attempts so she goes into hiding
protected by teenage Anakin and he's in
love with her even though that's against
the Jedi Code you're studying to become
a Jedi I'm I'm a senator meanwhile the
council since obi-wan to investigate the
assassinations which lead him to a
planet called Kamino there he finds out
surprise there's a secret army of the
Republic made up of clones now these are
the clones of a bounty hunter named
Jango Fett who wear super-strong
Mandalorian armor more of the
Mandalorians in just a bit meanwhile
Anakin and Padme play in the grass they
talk about politics and they kiss until
Padme pumps the brakes
[Music]
Anakin has been having bad dreams about
his mom dying so they go back to
Tatooine where sure enough dead mom he
kills an entire village of San people
then brags about it to his new
girlfriend and I slaughtered them like
animals and then she's all like oh my
poor little murderer I love you
meanwhile obi-wan has been captured by
Count Dooku Anakin and Padme go to
rescue him and they bring along a
protocol droid named c-3po who anakin
built when he was a kid
thank you back on course on Jar Jar
proposes to give Palpatine emergency
military powers so they can cut through
the crap and use the Clone Army there's
a big battle on Geonosis between the
separatists and the Republic with the
Jedi assuming leadership of the Clone
Army during the fight Jango Fett is
killed but his clones son Boba Fett
takes over his armor Dooku cuts off
Anakin's arm and fight she Oded to a
standstill before escaping but now
things are getting serious begun
the club has Duke who delivers plans for
a superweapon to Darth Sidious back on
Khorasan while Anakin and Padme are
married in secret alright now on to the
Clone Wars Anakin has become a
full-fledged
Jedi and takes on a Padawan apprentice
of his own a young woman named ahsoka
tano I'm the one with enthusiasm you're
the one with the experience which I'm
looking forward to learning from all
right so battles between clones and
droids are raging across the galaxy the
separatist forces are led by General
Grievous a half alien half droid who
lightsaber fights with forearms on
planet Ryloth the Republic teams at the
local freedom fighter named kam syndulla
to fight the separatists off the planet
on Mon Cala the Jedi help young king
lee-char and his advisor Akbar to
prevent a civil war and kick the droids
off the planet a senator from Alderaan
named Bail Organa befriends Padme who's
still secretly married to Anakin and
during a rescue mission
Anakin forms a mutual respect for a
military officer named Tarkin Jango
Fett's home planet Mandalore has stayed
neutral in the war they're led by
Duchess Satine who had her own forbidden
love with obi-wan odd you said the word
I would have left the Jedi Order they're
fighting off a terrorist group of
Mandalorians called Death Watch who want
to make the planet violence again during
this time it's revealed that Darth Maul
survived as having and has been alive
all along why he fights to take control
of Mandalore and then consolidate
several crime syndicates fiendish I must
have read an English but he mostly wants
revenge on Darth Sidious and obi-wan
Sidious kicks his ass and Darth Maul
kills Obi Wan's true love Duchess Satine
so with every battle the Jedi began to
lose their way the fog of war Falls and
makes them less keepers of the peace and
more soldiers one Jedi is even expelled
from the order for war crimes
so kitano meanwhile grows to be a great
warrior but she's framed for murder and
the Jedi Council imprison her though
she's proved innocent she's
disillusioned and leaves the Jedi Order
I understand wanting to walk away from
the order I know now this leaves Anakin
resentful of the Jedi Council
meanwhile the Senate keeps amending the
Constitution to give Palpatine more
power the separatists are on the ropes
but the war drags on the Senate will
vote to continue the war
as long as Grievous is alive Grievous
kidnaps Palpatine but is rescued by
Anakin and obi-wan while obi-wan has
passed out the Chancellor gives Anakin
some advice kill him and he cuts off
Dooku's head with two lightsabers one
blue and one red is that symbolic
afterwards Yoda leaves to fight droids
on Kashyyyk a planet full of giant eight
people called wookies while obi-wan runs
off to kill Grievous and then the war
then Padme drops this bomb on Anakin
what then he starts having nightmares
about his wife dying in childbirth
so then Anakin goes to the Opera with
Palpatine who tells him about a Sith
Lord who knew the secret to immortality
he could even keep the ones he cared
about from dying man Anakin figures out
the truth
you're the symbol what now mace Windu
and a few redshirt Jedi go to arrest the
Chancellor but Anakin turns heel and
joins the Syst Anakin is now Darth Vader
and he helps Palpatine purge all the
Jedi Anakin goes to the temple and
murders a few Jedi kids kids yeah he
murders kids he just go straight to
child murder well yeah that's because
he's evil now look can you leave I'm
trying to do this and you're really
throwing me off Thanks
meanwhile obi-wan kills Grievous and
wins the war but the Emperor's enacted
order 66 which activates a chip in the
clones heads and tells them to kill Jedi
obi-wan and Yoda escape the PIRs the
latter with the help of a kind Wookiee
named Chewbacca meanwhile Palpatine uses
the Jedi attack as an excuse to form
with himself as the emperor Padme and
her friend Bail Organa are not happy
about this
Yoda and obi-wan split up to fight the
two Sith Lords Obi once throws away on
Padme ship making Anakin think that she
betrayed him
the Emperor defeats Yoda literally
collapsing the institution of democracy
around him is that symbolic obi-wan cuts
off the rest of Anakin's limbs before
letting him burn like a marshmallow
[Music]
later Padme gives birth to twins and
dies of a broken heart her last words
are Darth Vader is placed inside a droid
suit that helps him breathe he asked
where Padme is and the Emperor tells him
you killed
so then Vader is all like the twins are
split up to protect them from Vader Leia
is adopted by Bail Organa on Alderaan
while Luke goes to live with this
step-uncle on Tatooine well obi-wan
lives nearby to keep an eye on him
meanwhile Anakin the Emperor and Tarkin
begin construction on their new super
weapon it was in part designed by a
scientist named Galen or so he tried to
leave the project but was kidnapped by
the Empire his daughter
Jenner so was taken him by a clone wars
veteran named Sal Guerrera who raised
her to be a warrior now meanwhile on
planet Corellia a young indentured
servant named Han is trying to escape
the planet with his girlfriend Kira he
gets off planet by joining the Imperial
military who give him the last name Solo
now while he's in the brig he meets our
old friend Chewbacca the two become best
friends and join a heist group but then
they get in Hawk to a gangster syndicate
called crimson dawn where Kira now works
what so they gotta steal some space
gasoline to pay off crimson dawn so they
recruit a smooth-talking gambler named
Lando Calrissian to help them and it's
implied that he looks a robot how that
works
plan to ship the Millennium Falcon is
the fastest in the galaxy they narrowly
escaped the Empire there's a few
double-crosses they killed a vision of
woody harrelson and han helps out some
rebels but doesn't join them he wins the
Falcon from Lando in a card game so now
he and Chewie can have adventures
together but Kira stays in the crime
game but it turns out that her boss has
been Darth Maul all along
what now over the coming years there's a
lot of discontent toward the Empire
small groups have started to resist
locally on one planet called loathe all
a small band of rebels upsets the Empire
with small raids
their leader is Harrison Dula daughter
of Clone Wars freedom fighter cam
syndulla
and there's also Kanan a former Jedi
Padawan who escaped her
there's Zeb chopper and a Mandalorian
highborn named Sabine they're joined by
Ezra who's kind of a street rat
but Kanan realizes Ezra stronger the
force and trains him to be a Jedi
gradually they come into contact with
other rebel cells led by Bail Organa his
adopted daughter Leia and ahsoka tano
they formed the Alliance to restore the
Republic which is often just called the
Rebel Alliance Vader nearly kills ahsoka
in a duel before
Ezra saves her with time travel he does
this by accessing a place called the
world between worlds which I think might
be in the rise of Skywalker kind of over
the years they meet Darth Maul who tries
to tempt Ezra to the dark side but dies
in a final duel with an elderly obi-wan
Sabine helps her family unite the houses
of Mandalore and Hera helps organize the
rebellion on a larger scale recruiting
Imperial pilots like wedge antilles
and finding ships like the x-wing
Starfighter eventually Kanan dies and
Hera has his baby
Ezra disappears taking a huge Imperial
fleet with him freeing his planet from
the Empire then Sabine and ahsoka tano
leave to go find him you know somewhere
around this time the Empire took over
Mandalore from the separatists and
implemented the great purge they stole
best car the metal that makes
Mandalorian armor enforced many
Mandalorians into exile afterwards many
of them became radicalized warriors and
swore to never remove their helmets this
is the way
[Music]
meanwhile this fledgling rebellion has
become worried about the Empire's new
superweapon they cool it the desta
supervising its construction or Orson
Critic and our old pal Tarkin who's now
a Grand Moff this thing can actually
blow up entire planets so the rebels
recruit gen or so and she decides to
rescue her dad from the Empire she joins
up with a ragtag group of unlikely
heroes called rogue one they catch up to
her dad who tells them where to find the
Death Star plans and that the super
weapon has a weakness that he built into
the design to make it easy to destroy so
now the rebellion under leadership of
former senators Bail Organa and Mon
Mothma staged an attack on planets
careth to recover the plans it's the
first major victory against the Empire
but unfortunately gen and all the rest
of her team are killed along with cranek
the stolen plants got on board a small
cruiser and are handed off to Princess
Leia Darth Vader is unable to retrieve
them despite being a stone-cold badass
in a hallway fight
laya following instructions from her dad
goes to Tatooine to recruit obi-wan
Kenobi but she's been captured by the
Imperials so she puts the Death Star
plans inside r2d2 who escapes to the
planet with c-3po Darth Vader captures
Leia and brings her back to the Death
Star meanwhile the droids are captured
by scavengers called Jawas and sold to
Owen and Beru Lars who just happened to
be raising young Luke Skywalker
Lucas Restless and wants to leave the
farm and if these new droids do work out
I want to transmit my application to the
Academy this year but his uncle won't
allow it even though the Academy next
year but still he dreams of a life
somewhere beyond his twin desert Suns he
discovers lay his hidden message inside
r2 so they find the Jedi Master who's
called himself been for years and after
just 17 years has aged like an avocado
Ben tells Luke about the force and the
Jedi and his father peppered in with a
few half-truths a young Jedi named Darth
Vader he betrayed a mojo father after
Imperial Stormtroopers killed Luke's
family he decides to help obi-wan and go
to otter on in a spaceport bar they meet
her old friend Han Solo still smuggling
with Chewbacca no han is in deep to the
gangster Jabba the Hutt so he agrees to
take them to Alderaan in the Millennium
Falcon for a large fee and yeah about
Alderaan the Death Star blew it up what
and now the Imperials are going to kill
Leia the heroes enter the Death Star and
rescue Leia who's got a lot of sass at
his handy with the blaster somebody get
this big walking carpet out of my way
obi-wan confronts Vader but wills
himself to be part of the force before
dying
this allows the heroes to escape and
bring the plans back to the rebellion
where they find the Death Star's fatal
flaw the rebels fly into battle as the
Death Star closes in on their base
Luke joins the fight along with wedge
antilles and a lot of people who just
died
Darth Vader uses an imperial ship called
a TIE fighter to destroy almost every
rebel fighter until Han shows up with a
quick rescue Luke turns off his
targeting computer and trusts in the
force to guide him he blows up the Death
Star killing everyone except Vader
who escaped in his ship Vader could feel
that the pilot who destroyed the Death
Star had special abilities so he does
some investigating and finds out that
his last name was Skywalker and then he
realizes that this is his son he didn't
actually kill Padme and the emperor has
been lying to him all along what so he
plans to recruit Luke to be his
apprentice so the two of them can
overthrow the Emperor so about three
years go by and the rebellion is hiding
their base on an ice planet called Hoth
han is still with them but he's about to
leave and pay off Jabba the Hutt but
then the Empire attacks and the rebels
barely get away Han Leia Chewbacca and
the droids engage in a cat-and-mouse
game of chase that almost results in
some hanky-panky
[Applause]
[Music]
Vader is chasing them down looking for
Luke and even hires Boba Fett who's all
grown up now
Luke meanwhile is training with Yoda on
a swamp planet and his force powers are
but they but they good but not as good
as yoga's but then he has a vision of
han and Leia in trouble and he cuts his
training short despite warnings from Obi
Wan's ghost meanwhile the other heroes
are fixing their ship on Cloud City
which is run by Hans old friend Lando
who it turns out was working for the
Empire all along what they freeze Han
Solo and hand him over to Boba Fett so
Luke shows up Vader kicks his ass cuts
off his hand and tells him that he's
been his father all along what weird he
knew that we could move but galaxy's
father I'm sorry
so Luke is all like you're not my real
dad and then Lando turns babyface and
helps them escape the rebels are pushed
out of the galaxy completely but live to
fight another day now let's go back to
Tatooine to the palace of the vile
gangster Jabba the Hutt job has got it
all a band a stripper and a big monster
to eat the stripper the rebels
infiltrate his base to free Han but the
plan backfires and they're all captured
now this space pirate is going to make
the block the plank into a monster that
looks like a butt with teeth but then
Luke shows off all of his badass new
force abilities Leia strangles Jabba
artoo electrocutes a monkey lizard Boba
Fett falls into the butt with teeth and
the rebels get away Luke goes back to
the swamp to washio to die and obi-wan
tells him that Leia is his sister they
wanted to fight Vader but Luke says
can't kill my own father I mean while
the rebels learn the Empire is building
a new Death Star so our heroes go to the
forest moon of Endor to blow up its
shield generator they raise spikes and
make friends with teddy bears called a
walks Luke tries to turn Vader to the
good side with that plan backfires Vader
takes him to the Emperor who reveals
that he set a trap for the rebellion
Lando shows up with Akbar commanding the
rebel fleet soon they realize it's a
huge battle begins in space on Endor but
the teddy bears join in the fight and
between Luke and Vader Luke almost turns
to the dark side before realizing as we
all do one day that he's turning into
his father so he rejects this path I am
a Jedi
like my father before me the emperor
responds by electrocuting him until
vader has a change of heart and betrays
the emperor invaders final moments he
thanks Luke for believing in him Han
blows up the show generator Lando and
wedge destroyed the Death Star and
across the galaxy people celebrate the
defeat of the evil Galactic Empire
Luke holds a small intimate service for
his father then joins the celebration
with the teddy bears and the ghost of
his mentor's then it turns out that the
emperor put a kill switch on the Empire
called operation center basically if the
Empire couldn't protect its Emperor then
it's not worth having the Imperial fleet
begins destroying planets before they're
finally defeated at the battle of jakku
then a government called the new
republic is formed on the outer rim of
the galaxy Imperial warlords fight for
control of the Empire straps a
Mandalorian bounty hunter faces off with
these remnants to save a young lane of
Yoda's race who is also strong with the
force the New Republic disbands 90% of
its military so they won't end up a
dictatorship like the Empire Leia goes
into politics marries Han and has a son
named Ben
Luke trains Ben in the ways of the force
forces John now Leia is worried about a
new military group called the first
order but no one else in the New
Republic seems to care so she leaves the
Republic to start a shadow military
group the resistance this is composed of
plucky ragtag pilots from across the
galaxy they're led by poe dameron the
galaxy's best pilot since Luke Skywalker
the first order are led by an evil Cosi
dressed force user named Snoke Luke
starts a new jedi school but senses that
Snoke is drawing Ben toward the dark
side of the force he's tempted to murder
the kid like father like son am i right
but then he changes his mind but Ben
turns anyways kills the other students
and runs off with a few of his friends
afterwards Luke gives up and puts
himself into exile han and Leia split
with Han going back to smuggling with
Chewie now Ben calls himself kylo Ren
and he's a higher-up in the first order
along with an N cell named Huck's all
right so now it's 30 years after the
Battle of Endor kylo Ren is looking for
a map to Luke Skywalker that Poe Dameron
has hidden inside of a cute little droid
named bb-8 the first order catches Po
and jakku but the droid escapes and is
found by a scavenger named ray poe
escapes the first order with the help of
a turncoat stormtrooper named Finn they
get separated but then Fenn meets Rey
and they escaped the first order on the
Millennium Falcon Han and Chewie find
them and they go to a wise old pirate
named
kanata ray finds Luke's old lightsaber
and has crazy force visions because it
turns out that she's force sensitive to
this saber take it now meanwhile the
first order have built a new super
weapon called Starkiller base and they
use it to take out the capital of the
new republic the first order attacks the
castle the resistance shows up and Han
is reunited with his estranged wife but
the first order kidnaps Rey the
resistance stage is a daring raid on the
base while Finn Han and Chewie rescue
Rey kind of I mean she mostly rescues
herself because she's so strong with the
force even though nobody's had to train
or anything like that that's not
important right now then kills Han and
then has an epic lightsaber fight with
Rey who again is just crazy strong with
the force their duel ends in a draw poe
destroy Starkiller base and finn is very
badly injured rey uses the completed map
to find Luke Skywalker and ask him to
help the resistance now the good guys
are on the run and the first order has
an overwhelming advantage in numbers the
resistance flagship is badly damaged
nearly killing Leia who saves herself
with the force but now she's in a coma
Finn makes friends with the technician
named ROS and they catch a crazy plan to
hack the first order ship they travel to
a planet filled with the worst scum in
the galaxy their richest 1% there they
recruit a codebreaker named DJ who
eventually betrayed them Luke refuses to
Train Rey and instead gives her lessons
and why the Jedi need to be phased out
legacy of the Jedi is failure but Ray's
powers continue to grow anyways she
reaches a connection with kylo Ren
through the force and the two of them
headed off if I continue Ben solo will
tongue she decides that she can turn him
to the good side and sure enough
kylo double-crosses his master he and
Ray team up for a second before he tries
to recruit her to the first order and
then he reveals that her parents were
actually nobody all along what Poe tries
to pull a mutiny on hold oh but Leia
stops him and the cocksure pilot learns
a lesson in long term strategizing hodo
sacrifices herself so the resistance can
escape to a bunker on a salt planet
rosen finn joined the fight and do this
the first order traps the resistance but
then Luke Skywalker shows up to duel his
nephew but it turns out that Luke was
actually forced projecting himself all
along see your rank the heroes escape on
the Millennium Falcon and Rey has taken
the sacred Jedi text that will allow her
to further her training now the
resistance has learned from their
failures and is ready to rebuild and
face the first order far away Luke
watches a twin sunset and becomes one
with the force mirroring the isolated
young man who looked into the desert sky
and dreamed of adventure Wow across the
galaxy the legend of Luke Skywalker and
the resistance spreads as more children
look to the stars and dream of a new
hope all right guys that's basically all
of Star Wars if you have any things that
you think I should have left in let me
know in the comments below and if it's
your first time here please subscribe
for screen Crush I'm Ryan Arry
[Music]